---
title: "A declarative approach to specifying distributed algorithms using three-valued modal logic"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-logic
excerpt: 'A declarative approach to specifying distributed algorithms using three-valued modal logic.'
#date: 2024
# venue: PODC
# paperurl: 
# citation: 
---

We present Coalition Logic, a three-valued modal fixed-point logic designed for declaratively specifying and reasoning about distributed algorithms, such as the Paxos consensus algorithm.
Our methodology represents a distributed algorithm as a logical theory, enabling correctness properties to be derived directly within the framework -- or revealing logical errors in the algorithm's design when they exist.
Coalition Logic adopts a declarative approach, specifying the overall logic of computation without prescribing control flow. Notably, message-passing is not explicitly modeled, distinguishing our framework from approaches like TLA+. This abstraction emphasises the logical essence of distributed algorithms, offering a novel perspective on their specification and reasoning.
We define the syntax and semantics of Coalition Logic, explore its theoretical properties, and demonstrate its applicability through a detailed treatment of the Paxos consensus algorithm. By presenting Paxos as a logical theory and deriving its standard correctness properties, we showcase the framework's capacity to handle non-trivial distributed systems.
We envision Coalition Logic as a versatile tool for specifying and reasoning about distributed algorithms. The Paxos example highlights the framework's ability to capture intricate details, offering a new lens through which distributed algorithms can be specified, studied, and checked.

_Co-authored by_ Jamie Gabbay

[arXiv paper here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.00892) 



